# W2 Draft
> Facebook content/photo Storage
> How Facebook achieves Performance, Scalability, Reliability and Availability in terms of the following use cases and/or Current tech and how its been evolved

## Content
## Useful Resources

### Research Papers & literature : (All Literature)

* Salem, Asma. (2017). 
> Facebook Distributed System Case Study For Distributed System Inside Facebook Datacenters. 10.13140/RG.2.2.15877.04329.  https://www.researchgate.net/publication/318946789_Facebook_Distributed_System_Case_Study_For_Distributed_System_Inside_Facebook_Datacenters

* Apache Hadoop Goes Realtime at Facebook 
> Dhruba Borthakur, Jonathan Gray, Joydeep Sen Sarma, Kannan Muthukkaruppan, Nicolas Spiegelberg, Hairong Kuang, Karthik Ranganathan, Dmytro Molkov, Aravind Menon, Samuel Rash, Rodrigo Schmidt, and Amitanand Aiyer. 2011. Apache hadoop goes realtime at Facebook. In Proceedings of the 2011 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of data (SIGMOD '11). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 1071–1080. DOI:https://doi-org.elib.tcd.ie/10.1145/1989323.1989438

* Social Cloud: Cloud Computing in Social Networks
> K. Chard, S. Caton, O. Rana and K. Bubendorfer, "Social Cloud: Cloud Computing in Social Networks," 2010 IEEE 3rd International Conference on Cloud Computing, 2010, pp. 99-106, doi: 10.1109/CLOUD.2010.28.

* Data Warehousing and Analytics Infrastructure at Facebook
> Thusoo, Ashish, Zheng Shao, Suresh Anthony, Dhruba Borthakur, Namit Jain, Joydeep Sen Sarma, Raghotham Murthy, and Hao Liu. "Data warehousing and analytics infrastructure at facebook." In Proceedings of the 2010 ACM SIGMOD International Conference on Management of data, pp. 1013-1020. 2010.

* Exploiting Locality of Interest in Online Social Networks
> Wittie, Mike P., Veljko Pejovic, Lara Deek, Kevin C. Almeroth, and Ben Y. Zhao. "Exploiting locality of interest in online social networks." In Proceedings of the 6th International COnference, pp. 1-12. 2010.

### Video Resources:

* https://www.infoq.com/facebook/
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AI01rRJH1Rg 
* Article summarising Facebook’s system architecture: https://medium.com/swlh/an-introduction-to-facebooks-system-architecture-47cfcf597101 

* Hive - a petabyte scale data warehouse using Hadoop
> Thusoo, Ashish, Joydeep Sen Sarma, Namit Jain, Zheng Shao, Prasad Chakka, Ning Zhang, Suresh Antony, Hao Liu, and Raghotham Murthy. "Hive-a petabyte scale data warehouse using hadoop." In 2010 IEEE 26th international conference on data engineering (ICDE 2010), pp. 996-1005. IEEE, 2010.

* The Hadoop Distributed File System
> Shvachko, Konstantin, Hairong Kuang, Sanjay Radia, and Robert Chansler. "The hadoop distributed file system." In 2010 IEEE 26th symposium on mass storage systems and technologies (MSST), pp. 1-10. Ieee, 2010.

* Cassandra - A Decentralized Structured Storage System
> Lakshman, Avinash, and Prashant Malik. "Cassandra: a decentralized structured storage system." ACM SIGOPS Operating Systems Review 44, no. 2 (2010): 35-40.

* Dynamic Scaling of Web Applications in a Virtualized Cloud Computing Environment
> Chieu, Trieu C., Ajay Mohindra, Alexei A. Karve, and Alla Segal. "Dynamic scaling of web applications in a virtualized cloud computing environment." In 2009 IEEE International Conference on e-Business Engineering, pp. 281-286. IEEE, 2009.

* Cloud Computing Architecture for Social Computing - A Comparison Study of Facebook and Google
> Yang, Bo-Wen, Wen-Chih Tsai, An-Pin Chen, and Singh Ramandeep. "Cloud computing architecture for social computing-A comparison study of Facebook and Google." In 2011 International Conference on Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining, pp. 741-745. IEEE, 2011.


* TAO: The power of the graph 
  - https://m.facebook.com/nt/screen/?params=%7B%22note_id%22%3A10158791581867200%7D&path=%2Fnotes%2Fnote%2F&_rdr
  - https://research.facebook.com/publications/tao-facebooks-distributed-data-store-for-the-social-graph/

* Overview of Facebook scalable architecture
> https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/2618168.2618198

* Facebook’s Distributed Data Store for the Social Graph
> https://research.facebook.com/publications/tao-facebooks-distributed-data-store-for-the-social-graph/

* How Facebook’s to build a key-value pair store:
> https://engineering.fb.com/2021/08/06/core-data/zippydb/

* How Facebook’s distributed file storages system works: https://www.infoq.com/presentations/scale-facebook-big-data/

* Scaling Facebook Live Videos to a Million users: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IO4teCbHvZw 

* Tech Stack used by Facebook: https://www.scaleyourapp.com/what-database-does-facebook-use-a-1000-feet-deep-dive/ 

* How Facebook stores images on a large scale: https://www.scaleyourapp.com/contents/distributed-systems-and-scalability-feed/

* https://www.infoq.com/presentations/canopy-scalable-tracing-analytics-facebook/?itm_source=presentations_about_Facebook&itm_medium=link&itm_campaign=Facebook

* https://research.facebook.com/publications/finding-a-needle-in-haystack-facebooks-photo-storage/ 

### Additional resources:

* https://www.slideshare.net/AhmadYar10/presention-on-facebook-in-f-distributed-systems 

## Facebook content/photo Storage

### Photo Storage

#### Types of photo files

Facebook classifies photos into three categories, 'hot', 'warm' and 'cold' photos, and uses different mechanisms to process these images:
* Hot: Popular, a lot of views (approx. 90% of views)
* Warm: Somewhat popular, but still a lot of views in aggregate
* Cold: Unpopular, occasional views

#### Different ways of processing photos

##### Hot photos
CDN (Content Distribution Network)

##### Warm photos
Haystack (Facebook has designed its own storage called Haystack)

##### Cold photos
f4 (It is an “archival” storage designed by Facebook)

#### Technology(CDN, Haystack, f4)

##### CDN

###### What is CDN

* CDN is a content delivery network;
  - A CDN is a network of servers that distributes content from an “origin” server throughout the world by caching content close to where each end user is accessing the internet via a web-enabled device. 
* A CDN is a cache, not a permanent store;
* Content providers are CDN customers;

###### Pros and cons of CDN

* Pros: Very good performance
* Cons: no reliability guarantee

###### How does the CDN work?

* CDN company (e.g., Akamai) installs thousands of servers throughout Internet (In large datacenters close to users)
* CDN replicates customers’ content
* When provider updates content, CDN updates servers

> The content they request is first stored on the origin server and is then replicated and stored elsewhere as needed. By caching content physically close to where a user is and reducing the distance it has to travel, latency is reduced. This process also decreases stress on origin servers by distributing the load geographically across multiple servers.

##### Haystack

###### What is Haystack

* Designed for performance and reliability
* "Default" photo storage

###### Pros and cons of Haystack
* Pros: Good throughput and reliability;
* Cons: Somewhat inefficient use of storage space (mainly due to replication).

###### Haystack Directory

* Helps the URL construction for an image
  - http://⟨CDN⟩/⟨Cache⟩/⟨Machine id⟩/⟨Logical volume, Photo⟩
  - Staged lookup
  - CDN strips out its portion.
  - Cache strips out its portion.
  - Machine strips out its portion

* Logical & physical volumes
  - A logical volume is replicated as multiple physical volumes
  - Physical volumes are stored.
  - Each volume contains multiple photos.

###### Haystack Cache & Store

* Haystack cache
  - Facebook-operated second-level cache using DHT
  - Photo IDs as keys
  - Further removes traffic to Store

* Haystack store
  - Maintains physical volumes
  - One volume is a single large file (100GB) with many photos (needles)
  - Performance-optimized: requires a single disk read for image retrieval


##### f4

###### f4's Replication

* (n, k) Reed-Solomon code
  - k data blocks, f==(n-k) parity blocks, n total blocks
  - Upon a failure, any k blocks can reconstruct the lost block.
  - Can tolerate up to f block failures
  - Need to go through coder/decoder for read/write, which affects the throughput

* Parity example: XOR
  - (Reed-Solomon uses something more complicated that this.)
  - XOR bits, e.g., (0, 1, 1, 0) P: 0
  - Reconstruction after failures: (0, 1, 1, 0) P: 0

###### f4: Single Datacenter

* Within a single data center, (14, 10) Reed-Solomon code
  - This tolerates up to 4 block failures
  - 1.4X storage usage per block

* Distribute blocks across different racks
  - This tolerates four host/rack failures

###### f4: Cross-Datacenter

* Additional parity block
  - Can tolerate a single datacenter failure

* Overall average space usage per block: 2.1X
  - E.g., average for block A & B: (1.4*2 + 1.4)/2 = 2.1

* With 2.1X space usage,
  - 4 host/rack failures tolerated
  - 1 datacenter failure tolerated

### Content Storage

#### Architecture 
Facebook, the online social network (OSN) system is relying on globally distributed datacenters which are highly dependent on centralized U.S data centers, in which scalability, availability, openness, reliability and security are the major System requirements. 
The architecture of the system ,the scheme here is 3 tier architecture or more (4 tier) 

##### To served by the follwing steps

1. Dedicated webservers,
   * These web serveres are highly connected in high available scheme to handle billions of requests and aggregate the logs coming from different webservers .
2. Scribe–Hadoop Clusters
   * Then they are redirected in uncompressed format to the Scribe–Hadoop Clusters
3. Hive–Hadoop
   * Then communicate the Hive –Hadoop servers cluster 
4. Mysql
   * Federated Mysql is the data base engine which hold the data bases holding up the whole system [8]

#### Distributed systems components

Systems design, big data processing and analysis and huge Storage that are reasons of these components that are Facebook relying on, 

Facebook is relying on Hadoop platform, which is well suited to deal with unstructured text,logs,and events steams , and structured data, as well as when a data discovery process is needed. it is built for the purpose of handling larger volumes of data, so preparing data and processing it should be cost prohibitive.

##### Hadoop

###### Two main components

1. Map–Reduce
   * which dedicated for Computation.(M-R)
2. Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS)
   * Deals with Storage. See figure (3).

###### Master nodes

Hadoop consists of multiple master nodes to avoid single point of failure in any environment.

###### The elements of master node

1. Job Tracker
   * Job tracker interacts with client applications. It is distributing Map and reducing tasks to particular nodes within a cluster. 

2. Task tracker
   * It is process receives the tasks from a job tracker in in the master node.

3. Name node (NN)
   * They are responsible for keeping track for each file in Hadoop Distribute File System HDFS ,a client application contact NN to locate file ,delete ,copy ,or add.

4. Data Node (DN)
   * They are responsible for storing in HDFS , they are keeping indexes for files stored in , they are interact between client applications and the NN .providing the clients with name of NN that are hold the required data. 

5. Worker Nodes
   * They are the servers who are responsible for processing tasks; each worker (slave) holds DN and a task tracker.

##### Map Reduce (M-R) 

Two major phases map & reduce 

###### Steps

1. Index any data comes from HDFS and being divided into blocks. 
2. Submit the M-R Job and its details to the Job tracker.
3. Mapper process data blocks and generates a list of key value pairs. 
4. M-R merge list of key value pairs to generate final results. 


##### HDFS

Distributed file system that serve the Facebook is mainly Hadoop distributed file system (HDFS) 

###### Advantages

* Run on low-cost hardware
* Highly fault-tolerance (as it supports block replication) 
* Store very large data sets
* Reliability
* High bandwidth
* Ability to dynamically scale

#### Hadoop and Hive

In Facebook Hive is a data warehouse infrastructure built on top of Hadoop technology.

###### Role

1. Easy data summarization;
2. Heavily reporting;
3. Adhoc querying;
4. Analysis of large datasets data stored;
5. HiveQL.
   > A simple query language called HiveQL which is based on SQL and which enables users familiar with SQL to query this data [1].

#### Apache HBase 

Facebook messaging system by the support of Apache HBase which is a database-like layer built on Hadoop designed to support billions of messages per day.

#### Memcahed servers

Facebook, let Hadoop performing a random access workloads that provides low latency access to HDFS, by using a combination of large clusters of MySQL databases and caching tiers built using memcached ,that will be support a better in performance while all results from Hadoop are directed to MySQL or memcached for consumption by the web tier side.





